." bnfparser2 - Generic BNF-adaptable parser
." http://bnfparser2.sourceforge.net
."
."      This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
."      modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
."      License version 2.1, as published by the Free Software Foundation.
."
."      This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
."      but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
."      MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
."      Lesser General Public License for more details.
."
." Copyright (c) 2007 ANF DATA spol. s r.o.
."
." $Id$
."
.TH bnfcheck 1 "September 15, 2007" "version 0.1" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
bnfcheck \- check input against a BNF syntax specification
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bnfcheck
[OPTION]... SYMBOL ([:VARIANT] SYNTAX)...
.SH DESCRIPTION
A universal syntax validation utility utilizing a generic BNF-adaptable parser
(bnfparser2). The parser is generated at run-time depending on given syntax
specification in a Backus-Naur Form (BNF).
.br
The tool reads from standard input words separated by a given delimiter (option -e)
and checks if the syntax conforms to the specification.
.PP
.B SYNTAX
Syntax specification using a particular VARIANT of BNF. (A file describing
the BNF grammar.) The specification may span several files.
.PP
.B :VARIANT
Specification of a BNF variant used by next SYNTAX parameter. (A file describing
a syntax of the BNF grammar.) The first SYNTAX must have VARIANT defined.
For additional SYNTAX specifications the VARIANT parameter is optional.
.br
Note: The file name and path must be prefixed with `:' (colon).
.PP
.B SYMBOL
Symbol to be checked. (A start nonterminal of the BNF grammar.)
Must be defined in the first SYNTAX.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-e NUM, --delimiter=NUM
set word delimiter to an ASCII character with decimal value NUM.
Default delimiter is LF(10).
.TP
\-d LEVEL, --debug=LEVEL
for debugging purposes: set verbosity to a given LEVEL
.TP
\--help
display a short help text and exit
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns count of input words with syntax errors.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start parser for SIP messages according to RFC3261. The messages will
be read from standard input and delimited by ASCII \\0 (zero).
.PP
.B bnfcheck
\-e 0 sip-message \\
    :share/conf/abnf.conf share/specs/rfc3261-25.abnf \\
    share/specs/rfc2806-2.abnf share/specs/rfc2234-6.1.abnf \\
    :share/conf/abnf-rfc1035.conf share/specs/rfc1035-2.3.abnf
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <bnfparser2-devel@lists.sourceforge.net>.
.SH CREDITS
Institute for Theoretical Computer Science (ITI) research center
.br
Faculty of Informatics, Masaryk University Brno
.PP
ANF DATA spol. s r.o.
.br
Siemens IT Solutions and Services, PSE Czech Republic
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2007 ANF DATA spol. s r.o.
.br
Copyright (c) 2007 Vaclav Vacek
.PP
This is free software. You may redistribute it and/or modify it under the
terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1, as published
by the Free Software Foundation.
